# Workshop for this step

Your instructor may have changes to the workshops, as our curriculum
is under continuous improvement.

## Example application

Our example application is available at the following URL:

http://videomanager.angularbootcamp.com

The features in it have been chosen to provide good examples and
context to explain, demonstrate, and workshop Angular features. Your
instructor will work on re-creating (portions of) an application
similar to this one in class.

## Start a new project

Throughout many of the remaining workshops, you will be creating an
Angular application using the Angular CLI. Your instructor may suggest
problem domain and feature ideas.

## Cloud 9 users, read this!

If you used our Cloud 9 setup script at the start of class, you
already have everything set up! To run the Angular CLI, make a new
terminal, then:

```
cd workshop-app
npm start
```

Use Preview to obtain the URL, and add :8081 on the end. By using this
setup, CLI `ng serve` will not conflict with the `live-server` and
`json-server` you are using for the rest of the class content.

Proceed to step 4.

## In-person students:

## Step 0: Node 6.9 or higher

Install Node 6.9 or higher, preferably 7.x. Node 6 ships with NPM 3.x,
which is necessary for Angular CLI to work.

## Step 1: Install Angular CLI

To create an Angular application from scratch, you will need to use
the Angular CLI, a command-line tool for quickly generating an Angular
project. The Angular CLI tool is available on NPM. To install it,
issue the following command from your OS terminal:

```
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

The above command will add the Angular CLI tool to your computer and
make it accessible from the command line.

## Step 2: Create an Angular Project

Use your terminal to navigate to the desired location for your new
project. Once you are there, type the following command:

```
ng new workshop-app
```

This command will create a new folder for your project and initialize
an Angular application within it.

## Step 3: Start your application

Change directories into the workshop-app folder that was generated by
Angular CLI and start Angular CLI in development mode:

```
cd workshop-app
npm start
```

Once the terminal reports that "Ready for changes", the
application is ready to load.

Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:4200/

You should see the resulting application.

## Step 4: (OPTIONAL) Add third-party CSS library

While fully-handcrafted CSS has advantages, an off-the-shelf CSS
framework is very helpful for getting up and running quickly. Typical
choices include:

### Bootstrap

http://getbootstrap.com/

Angular CLI has instructions for easily including the Bootstrap CSS in
your project:

https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/wiki/stories-include-bootstrap

There are also Angular libraries which wrap Bootstrap and provide
behavior as well as appearence, but those are too complex to start with.

### Materialize CSS

At Oasis Digital, we often use Materialize CSS, which provides a look
similar to the Google Material Design guide.

http://materializecss.com/

The CSS can be included in an Angular CLI application by a means
similar to the above instructions.

```
npm install -S materialize-css
```

(then edit your .angular-cli.json file)
